---
title: "Near Human"
date: 2019-12-16T22:56:15-08:00
draft: false
layout: race

stats:
  awareness:
    min: 2D+0
    max: 4D+0
  coordination:
    min: 2D+0
    max: 4D+0
  knowledge:
    min: 2D+0
    max: 4D+0
  physique:
    min: 2D+0
    max: 4D+0
  presence:
    min: 2D+0
    max: 4D+0
  reflexes:
    min: 2D+0
    max: 4D+0

special:

language: Basic
---

Near Human isn't a specific species, but rather a catch-all term for those
races who are similar to (or even descended from) humans to such a degree that
their physical specifications are practically identical. Near Humans differ
from Humans in ways that are mostly cosmetic, often a product of their
environment rather than genetic differences; for example, a Near Human species
with blue skin may have adapted to a different spectrum of light filtered
through their planet's atmosphere. Near Humans with more muscle may have
adapted to their world having stronger gravity, while smaller Near Humans may
have adapted to a world with weaker gravity.

Examples of Near Human species include, but are not limited to: Kiffar,
Mirialan, Wroonian, Echani, Kage.

While you are welcome to create and play your own custom Near Human species,
please keep the following rules in mind:

Your species' abilities must fall within the state minimum/maximum attributes
listed, and they cannot possess additional special abilities not available to
humans. Any differences from the human baseline which may impart additional
strength, agility, or mental prowess may be reflected in how you lay out your
attributes and skills, but they cannot exceed the prescribed limits.

Your species' distinct language may be roleplayed, but we cannot add your
custom language to the languages database. Your Near Human will speak Basic by
default, as far as the code is concerned.

Near Human species from Star Wars Legends who do not have a Canon appearance
will not be allowed; this means no Zeltrons, Miraluka, Hapan, Firrerreo,
etcetera. Likewise, 'original' species who resemble these species in all but
name will not be allowed.

Species such as the Chiss or the Arkanians, who are canon and could potentially
fall under the Near Human umbrella are also not allowed; we have excluded these
races for a reason.

If you have questions about whether or not your custom Near Human species will
be allowed, please submit a +request to staff with a description.